Types of Server
A Server is a computer or device on a network that manages network resources. For
example, a file server is a computer and storage device dedicated to storing files
Any user on the network can store files on the server. A print server is a computer
that manages one or more printers and a network server is a computer that
manages network traffic.
Servers are often dedicated, meaning that they perform no other tasks besides their
server tasks. On multiprocessing operating systems however, a single computer can
execute several programs at once. A server in this case could refer to the program
that is managing resources rather than the entire computer.
What is Server Platform?
A term often used synonymously with operating system. A platform is the underlying
hardware or software for a system and is thus the engine that drives the server.
Server types:
Application Servers
Sometimes referred to as a type of middleware, application servers occupy a large
chunk of computing territory between database servers and the end user, and they
often connect the two.
Middleware is a software that connects two otherwise separate applications For
example, there are a number of middleware products that link a database system to
a Web server This allows users to request data from the database using forms
displayed on a Web browser and it enables the Web server to return dynamic Web
pages based on the user's requests and profile.
The term middleware is used to describe separate products that serve as the glue
between two applications. It is, therefore, distinct from import and export features
that may be built into one of the applications. Middleware is sometimes called
plumbing because it connects two sides of an application and passes data between
them. Common middleware categories include:
* TP monitors
* DCE environments
* RPC systems
* Object Request Brokers (ORBs)
* Database access systems
* Message Passing
Audio/Video Servers
Audio/Video servers bring multimedia capabilities to Web sites by enabling them to
broadcast streaming multimedia content. Streaming is a technique for transferring
data such that it can be processed as a steady and continuous stream. Streaming
technologies are becoming increasingly important with the growth of the Internet
because most users do not have fast enough access to download large multimedia
files quickly. With streaming, the client browser or plug-in can starts displaying the
data before the entire file has been transmitted.
For streaming to work, the client side receiving the data must be able to collect the
data and send it as a steady stream to the application that is processing the data
and converting it to sound or pictures. This means that if the streaming client
receives the data more quickly than required, it needs to save the excess data in a
buffer If the data doesn't come quickly enough, however, the presentation of the
data will not be smooth.
There are a number of competing streaming technologies emerging. For audio data
on the Internet, the de facto standard is Progressive Network's RealAudio.
Chat Servers
Chat servers enable a large number of users to exchange information in an
environment similar to Internet newsgroups that offer real-time discussion
capabilities. Real time means occurring immediately. The term is used to describe a
number of different computer features. For example, real-time operating systems are
systems that respond to input immediately. They are used for such tasks as
navigation, in which the computer must react to a steady flow of new information
without interruption. Most general-purpose operating systems are not real-time
because they can take a few seconds, or even minutes, to react.
Real time can also refer to events simulated by a computer at the same speed that
they would occur in real life. In graphics animation, for example, a real-time program
would display objects moving across the screen at the same speed that they would
actually move.
Fax Servers
A fax server is an ideal solution for organizations looking to reduce incoming and
outgoing telephone resources but that need to fax actual documents.
FTP Servers
One of the oldest of the Internet services, File Transfer Protocol makes it possible to
move one or more files securely between computers while providing file security and
organization as well as transfer control.
Groupware Servers
A GroupWare server is software designed to enable users to collaborate, regardless
of location, via the Internet or a corporate Intranet and to work together in a virtual
atmosphere.
IRC Servers
An option for those seeking real-time capabilities, Internet Relay Chat consists of
various separate networks (or "nets") of servers that allow users to connect to each
other via an IRC network.
List Servers
List servers offer a way to better manage mailing lists, whether they are interactive
discussions open to the public or one-way lists that deliver announcements,
newsletters, or advertising.
Mail Servers
Almost as ubiquitous and crucial as Web servers, mail servers move and store mail
over corporate networks via LANs and WANs and across the Internet.
News Servers
News servers act as a distribution and delivery source for the thousands of public
news groups currently accessible over the USENET news network. USENET is a
worldwide bulletin board system that can be accessed through the Internet or
through many online services The USENET contains more than 14,000 forums
called newsgroups that cover every imaginable interest group. It is used daily by
millions of people around the world.
Proxy Servers
Proxy servers sit between a client program typically a Web browser and an external
server (typically another server on the Web) to filter requests, improve performance,
and share connections.
Telnet Servers
A Telnet server enables users to log on to a host computer and perform tasks as if 
they're working on the remote computer itself.
Web Servers
At its core, a Web server serves static content to a Web browser by loading a file
from a disk and serving it across the network to a user's Web browser. The browser
and server talking to each other using HTTP mediate this entire exchange.
Source: http://www.go4expert.com/articles/types-of-server-t325/